ex-10.3 7 dex103.htm first lien security agreement first lien security agreement exhibit 10.3 execution copy    first lien security agreement by fiesta restaurant group, inc., as borrower and the guarantors party hereto and wells fargo bank, national association, as administrative agent   dated as of august5, 2011    table of contents      page  preamble    1  recitals    1  agreement    1  article i definitions and interpretation  section 1.1.  definitions   2  section 1.2.  interpretation   10  section 1.3.  resolution of drafting ambiguities   10  section 1.4.  perfection certificate   10  article ii  grant of security and secured obligations  section 2.1.  grant of security interest   11  section 2.2.  filings   12  section 2.3.  first priority nature of liens   13  article iii perfection; supplements; further assurances; use of pledged collateral  section 3.1.  delivery of certificated securities collateral   13  section 3.2.  perfection of uncertificated securities collateral   14  section 3.3.  financing statements and other filings; maintenance of perfected security interest   14  section 3.4.  other actions   14  section 3.5.  joinder of additional guarantors   19  section 3.6.  supplements; further assurances   19  article iv representations, warranties and covenants  section 4.1.  title   20  section 4.2.  validity of security interest   20  section 4.3.  defense of claims; transferability of pledged collateral   20  section 4.4.  other financing statements   20  section 4.5.  location of inventory and equipment   21  section 4.6.  due authorization and issuance   21  section 4.7.  consents, etc.   21   -i- section 4.8.  pledged collateral and mortgaged property   21  section 4.9.  insurance   21  section 4.10.  post-closing collateral matters   22  section 4.11.  no impairment of the security interests   22  article v certain provisions concerning securities collateral  section 5.1.  pledge of additional securities collateral   22  section 5.2.  voting rights; distributions; etc.   22  section 5.3.  defaults, etc   23  section 5.4.  certain agreements of pledgors as issuers and holders of equity interests   24  article vi certain provisions concerning intellectual property collateral  section 6.1.  grant of intellectual property license   24  section 6.2.  protection of administrative agents security   24  section 6.3.  after-acquired property   25  section 6.4.  litigation   25  article vii [reserved]  article viii transfers  section 8.1.  transfers of pledged collateral or mortgaged property   26  article ix remedies  section 9.1.  remedies   26  section 9.2.  notice of sale   28  section 9.3.  waiver of notice and claims   28  section 9.4.  certain sales of pledged collateral   29  section 9.5.  no waiver; cumulative remedies   30  section 9.6.  certain additional actions regarding intellectual property   30  section 9.7.  [reserved]   30  section 9.8.  actions of administrative agent   31   -ii- article x application of proceeds  section 10.1.  application of proceeds   31  article xi miscellaneous  section 11.1.  concerning administrative agent and the other security documents   31  section 11.2.  administrative agent may perform; administrative agent appointed attorney-in-fact   33  section 11.3.  continuing security interest; assignment   34  section 11.4.  termination; release   34  section 11.5.  modification in writing   35  section 11.6.  notices   35  section 11.7.  governing law, consent to jurisdiction and service of process; waiver of jury trial   35  section 11.8.  severability of provisions   35  section 11.9.  execution in counterparts   36  section11.10.  business days   36  section11.11.  no credit for payment of taxes or imposition   36  section11.12.  no claims against administrative agent   36  section11.13.  no release   36  section11.14.  obligations absolute   37  signatures    s-1  exhibit 1 form of issuer acknowledgment  exhibit 2 form of securities pledge amendment  exhibit 3 form of copyright security agreement  exhibit 4 form of patent security agreement  exhibit 5 form of trademark security agreement  exhibit 6 form of perfection certificate   -iii- first lien security agreement this first lien security agreement dated as of august5, 2011 (as amended, amended and restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time in accordance with the provisions hereof, this agreement) made by fiesta restaurant group, inc., a delaware corporation (the borrower), and the guarantors from to time to time party hereto (the guarantors), as pledgors, assignors and debtors (the borrower, together with the guarantors, in such capacities and together with any successors in such capacities, the pledgors, and each, a pledgor), in favor of wells fargo bank, national association, in its capacity as administrative agent pursuant to the credit agreement (as hereinafter defined) (in such capacity, the administrative agent), for the several banks and other financial institutions as may from time to time become parties to such credit agreement (individually a lender and collectively, the lenders). r e c i t a l s : a. the borrower, the guarantors, the lenders and the administrative agent, in connection with the execution and delivery of this agreement, entered into that certain credit agreement, dated as of august5, 2011 (as amended, amended and restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the credit agreement) pursuant to which the administrative agent and the lenders have agreed to make loans and to issue letters of credit upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth therein. b. the borrower and each guarantor will receive substantial benefits from the extensions of credit under the credit agreement and each is, therefore, willing to enter into this agreement. c. each guarantor has, pursuant to the credit agreement, among other things, unconditionally guaranteed the secured obligations. d. this agreement is given by each pledgor in favor of the administrative agent for the benefit of the secured parties (as hereinafter defined) to secure the payment and performance of all of the secured obligations. e. it is a condition to the extension of the loans and the issuance of the letters of credit that each pledgor execute and deliver the applicable security documents, including this agreement. a g r e e m e n t : now therefore, in consideration of the foregoing premises and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, each pledgor and the administrative agent hereby agree as follows: article i definitions and interpretation section 1.1. definitions. (a) unless otherwise defined herein or in the credit agreement, capitalized terms used herein that are defined in the ucc shall have the meanings assigned to them in the ucc; provided that in any event, the following terms shall have the meanings assigned to them in the ucc: accounts; bank; chattel paper; commercial tort claim; commodity account; commodity contract; commodity intermediary; documents; electronic chattel paper; entitlement order; equipment; financial asset; fixtures; goods, inventory; letter-of-credit rights; letters of credit; money; payment intangibles; proceeds; promissory notes;  records; securities account; securities intermediary; security entitlement; supporting obligations; and tangible chattel paper. (b) terms used but not otherwise defined herein that are defined in the credit agreement shall have the meanings given to them in the credit agreement. (c) the following terms shall have the following meanings: account debtor shall mean each person who is obligated on a receivable or supporting obligation related thereto. agreement shall have the meaning assigned to such term in the preamble hereof. capital interests in any person means any and all shares, interests (including preferred interests, restricted stock interests and stock options, warrants and other convertible instruments), participations or other equivalents in the equity interest (however designated) in such person and any rights (other than debt securities convertible into an equity interest), warrants or options to acquire an equity interest in such person collateral support shall mean all property (real or personal) assigned, hypothecated or otherwise securing any pledged collateral and shall include any security agreement or other agreement granting a lien or security interest in such real or personal property. commodity account control agreement shall mean a control agreement in a form that is reasonably satisfactory to the administrative agent establishing the administrative agents control with respect to any commodity account. contracts shall mean, collectively, with respect to each pledgor, all sale, service, performance, equipment or property lease contracts, agreements and grants and all other  -2- contracts, agreements or grants (in each case, whether written or oral, or third party or intercompany), between such pledgor and any third party, and all assignments, amendments, restatements, supplements, extensions, renewals, replacements or modifications thereof. control shall mean (i)in the case of each deposit account, control, as such term is defined in section9-104 of the ucc, (ii)in the case of any security entitlement, control, as such term is defined in section8-106 of the ucc, and (iii)in the case of any commodity contract, control, as such term is defined in section9-106 of the ucc. control agreements shall mean, collectively, all deposit account control agreements, securities account control agreements and the commodity account control agreements. copyrights shall mean, collectively, with respect to each pledgor, all copyrights (whether statutory or common law, whether established or registered in the united states or any other country or any political subdivision thereof, whether registered or unregistered and whether published or unpublished) and all copyright registrations and applications made by such pledgor, in each case, whether now owned or hereafter created or acquired by or assigned to such pledgor, together with any and all (i)rights and privileges arising under applicable law with respect to such pledgors use of such copyrights, (ii)reissues, renewals, continuations and extensions thereof and amendments thereto, (iii)income, fees, royalties, damages, claims and payments now or hereafter due and/or payable with respect thereto, including damages and payments for past, present or future infringements thereof, (iv)rights corresponding thereto throughout the world and (v)rights to sue for past, present or future infringements thereof. copyright security agreement shall mean an agreement substantially in the form of exhibit3 hereto. default or event of default shall mean a default or event of default under the credit agreement. deposit account control agreement shall mean an agreement in a form that is reasonably satisfactory to the administrative agent establishing the administrative agents control with respect to any deposit account. deposit accounts shall mean, collectively, with respect to each pledgor, (i)all deposit accounts as such term is defined in the ucc and in any event shall include all accounts and sub-accounts relating to any of the foregoing accounts and (ii)all cash, funds, checks, notes and instruments from time to time on deposit in any of the accounts or sub-accounts described in clause (i)of this definition. distributions shall mean, collectively, with respect to each pledgor, all dividends, cash, options, warrants, rights, instruments, distributions, returns of capital or principal, income, interest, profits and other property, interests (debt or equity) or proceeds, including as a result of a split, revision, reclassification or other like change of the pledged securities, from  -3- time to time received, receivable or otherwise distributed to such pledgor in respect of or in exchange for any or all of the pledged securities or intercompany notes. excluded property shall mean (a) any rights or interest in any lease, contract, license or license agreement covering personal property or real property of any pledgor, so long as under the terms of such lease, contract, license or license agreement, or applicable law with respect thereto, the grant of a security interest or lien therein to the administrative agent is prohibited (or would render such lease, contract, license or license agreement cancelled, invalid or unenforceable) and such prohibition has not been or is not waived or the consent of the other party to such lease, contract, license or license agreement has not been or is not otherwise obtained; provided that, this exclusion shall in no way be construed to apply if any such prohibition is unenforceable under the ucc or other applicable law or so as to limit, impair or otherwise affect the administrative agents unconditional continuing security interests in and liens upon any rights or interests of any pledgor in or to monies due or to become due to and pledgor under any such lease, contract, license or license agreement (including any receivables); (b) assets owned by any pledgor on the date hereof or hereafter acquired and any proceeds thereof that are subject to a lien securing any purchase money indebtedness or capital lease obligations permitted to be incurred pursuant to the provisions of the credit agreement to the extent and for so long as the contract or other agreement in which such lien is granted (or the documentation providing for such purchase money indebtedness or capital lease obligation) validly prohibits the creation of any other lien on such assets and proceeds (other than to the extent that such prohibition would be rendered ineffective pursuant to section9-406, 9-407, 9-408 or 9-409 of the ucc (or any successor provision or provisions) of any relevant jurisdiction and other than to the extent all necessary consents to creation, attachment and perfection of the administrative agents liens thereon have been obtained); (c) any shares entitled to vote (within the meaning of treasury regulation section1.956-2) of any direct or indirect subsidiary of the issuer that is a controlled foreign corporation in excess of sixty-five (65%)percent of all of the issued and outstanding capital interests in such subsidiary; (d) any capital interests of any subsidiary of the borrower to the extent necessary for such subsidiary not to be subject to any requirement pursuant to rule 3-16 or rule 3-10 of regulation s-x under the exchange act, due to the fact that such subsidiarys capital interests secures the obligations, to file separate financial statements with the securities and exchange commission (or any other governmental agency); (e) any intent to use trademark application to the extent and for so long as creation of a security interest therein would result in the loss of any material rights therein, provided that upon submission and acceptance by the united states patent and  -4- trademark office of an amendment to allege use pursuant to 15 u.s.c. section1060(a) (or any successor provision), such intent to use trademark application shall not be considered excluded property; and (f) any real property leased by any pledgor; provided, however, that excluded property shall not include any proceeds, products, substitutions or replacements of any excluded property referred to in clause (a), (b), (c), (d), (e)or (f)(unless such proceeds, substitutions or replacements would constitute excluded property referred to in clauses (a), (b), (c), (d), (e)or (f)). general intangibles shall mean, collectively, with respect to each pledgor, all general intangibles, as such term is defined in the ucc, of such pledgor and, in any event, shall include (i)all of such pledgors rights, title and interest in, to and under all contracts and insurance policies (includingall rights and remedies relating to monetary damages, including indemnification rights and remedies, and claims for damages or other relief pursuant to or in respect of any contract), (ii)all know-how and warranties relating to any of the pledged collateral or the mortgaged property, (iii)any and all other rights, claims, choses-in-action and causes of action of such pledgor against any other person and the benefits of any and all collateral or other security given by any other person in connection therewith, (iv)all guarantees, endorsements and indemnifications on, or of, any of the pledged collateral or any of the mortgaged property, (v)all lists, books, records, correspondence, ledgers, printouts, files (whether in printed form or stored electronically), tapes and other papers or materials containing information relating to any of the pledged collateral or any of the mortgaged property, including all customer or tenant lists, identification of suppliers, data, plans, blueprints, specifications, designs, drawings, appraisals, recorded knowledge, surveys, studies, engineering reports, test reports, manuals, standards, processing standards, performance standards, catalogs, research data, computer and automatic machinery software and programs and the like, field repair data, accounting information pertaining to such pledgors operations or any of the pledged collateral or any of the mortgaged property and all media in which or on which any of the information or knowledge or data or records may be recorded or stored and all computer programs used for the compilation or printout of such information, knowledge, records or data, (vi)all licenses, consents, permits, variances, certifications, authorizations and approvals, however characterized, now or hereafter acquired or held by such pledgor, including building permits, certificates of occupancy, environmental certificates, industrial permits or licenses and certificates of operation and (vii)all rights to reserves, deferred payments, deposits, refunds, indemnification of claims and claims for tax or other refunds against any governmental authority. goodwill shall mean, collectively, with respect to each pledgor, the goodwill connected with such pledgors business including all goodwill connected with (i)the use of and symbolized by any trademark or intellectual property license with respect to any trademark in which such pledgor has any interest, (ii)all know-how, trade secrets, customer and supplier lists, proprietary information, inventions, methods, procedures, formulae, descriptions, compositions, technical data, drawings, specifications, name plates, catalogs, confidential information and the right to limit the use or disclosure thereof by any person, pricing and cost information, business  -5- and marketing plans and proposals, consulting agreements, engineering contracts and such other assets which relate to such goodwill and (iii)all product lines of such pledgors business. governmental authority means the government of the united states or any other nation, or of any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government (including any supra-national bodies such as the european union or the european central bank). guarantors shall have the meaning assigned to such term in the preamble hereof. indenture agreement shall mean that certain indenture, dated as of august5, 2011 (as amended, amended and restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time) among the borrower as issuer under the indenture agreement, the guarantors party thereto and the bank of new york mellon trust company, n.a., as trustee and as collateral agent. instruments shall mean, collectively, with respect to each pledgor, all instruments, as such term is defined in article9, rather than article3, of the ucc, and shall include all promissory notes, drafts, bills of exchange or acceptances. intellectual property collateral shall mean, collectively, the patents, trademarks, copyrights, intellectual property licenses and goodwill. intellectual property licenses shall mean, collectively, with respect to each pledgor, all license and distribution agreements with, and covenants not to sue, any other party with respect to any patent, trademark or copyright or any other patent, trademark or copyright, whether such pledgor is a licensor or licensee, distributor or distributee under any such license or distribution agreement, together with any and all (i)renewals, extensions, supplements and continuations thereof, (ii)income, fees, royalties, damages, claims and payments now and hereafter due and/or payable thereunder and with respect thereto including damages and payments for past, present or future infringements or violations thereof, (iii)rights to sue for past, present and future infringements or violations thereof and (iv)other rights to use, exploit or practice any or all of the patents, trademarks or copyrights or any other patent, trademark or copyright. intercompany notes shall mean, with respect to each pledgor, all intercompany notes described in schedule10 to the perfection certificate and intercompany notes hereafter acquired by such pledgor and all certificates, instruments or agreements evidencing such intercompany notes, and all assignments, amendments, restatements, supplements, extensions, renewals, replacements or modifications thereof to the extent permitted pursuant to the terms hereof. intercreditor agreement shall mean that certain intercreditor agreement, dated as of august5, 2011 between the administrative agent, as first-lien agent and the bank of  -6- new york mellon trust company, n.a., as second lien agent, as it may be amended, restated, supplemented or modified from time to time. investment property shall mean a security, whether certificated or uncertificated, security entitlement, securities account, commodity contract or commodity account, excluding, however, the securities collateral. leases shall mean any and all leases, subleases, tenancies, options, concession agreements, rental agreements, occupancy agreements, franchise agreements, access agreements and any other agreements (including all amendments, extensions, replacements, renewals, modifications and/or guarantees thereof), whether or not of record and whether now in existence or hereafter entered into, affecting the use or occupancy of all or any portion of any real property. lien means, with respect to any property or other asset, any mortgage, deed of trust, deed to secure debt, pledge, hypothecation, assignment, deposit arrangement, security interest, lien (statutory or otherwise), charge, easement, encumbrance or other security agreement on or with respect to such property or other asset (including, without limitation, any conditional sale or other title retention agreement having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing). mortgage has the meaning specified in section4.10. mortgage policy has the meaning specified in section4.10. mortgaged property means, collectively, (i)each real property listed on schedule 7(a) of the perfection certificate, (ii)each real property, if any, encumbered by a mortgage delivered after the closing date pursuant to section3.4 and 4.10 and (iii)any other interest in real property that secures the credit agreement. patents shall mean, collectively, with respect to each pledgor, all patents issued or assigned to, and all patent applications and registrations made by, such pledgor (whether established or registered or recorded in the united states or any other country or any political subdivision thereof), together with any and all (i)rights and privileges arising under applicable law with respect to such pledgors use of any patents, (ii)inventions and improvements described and claimed therein, (iii)reissues, divisions, continuations, renewals, extensions and continuations-in-part thereof and amendments thereto, (iv)income, fees, royalties, damages, claims and payments now or hereafter due and/or payable thereunder and with respect thereto including damages and payments for past, present or future infringements thereof, (v)rights corresponding thereto throughout the world and (vi)rights to sue for past, present or future infringements thereof. patent security agreement shall mean an agreement substantially in the form of exhibit4 hereto. perfection certificate means that certain perfection certificate to be executed and delivered by the borrower in connection with the execution and delivery of the credit  -7- agreement and the indenture agreement, to be dated on or about the closing date and substantially identical to the form attached hereto as exhibit 6. pledge amendment shall have the meaning assigned to such term in section5.1 hereof. pledged collateral shall have the meaning assigned to such term in section2.1 hereof. pledged securities shall mean, collectively, with respect to each pledgor, in each case other than excluded property, (i)all issued and outstanding equity interests of each issuer set forth on schedules 9(a) and 9(b) to the perfection certificate as being owned by such pledgor (other than equity interests of the excluded subsidiaries) and all options, warrants, rights, agreements and additional equity interests of whatever class of any such issuer acquired by such pledgor (including by issuance), together with all rights, privileges, authority and powers of such pledgor relating to such equity interests in each such issuer or under any organization document of each such issuer, and the certificates, instruments and agreements representing such equity interests and any and all interest of such pledgor in the entries on the books of any financial intermediary pertaining to such equity interests, (ii)all equity interests of any issuer (other than equity interests of the excluded subsidiaries), which equity interests are hereafter acquired by such pledgor (including by issuance) and all options, warrants, rights, agreements and additional equity interests of whatever class of any such issuer acquired by such pledgor (including by issuance), together with all rights, privileges, authority and powers of such pledgor relating to such equity interests or under any organization document of any such issuer, and the certificates, instruments and agreements representing such equity interests and any and all interest of such pledgor in the entries on the books of any financial intermediary pertaining to such equity interests, from time to time acquired by such pledgor in any manner, and (iii)all equity interests issued in respect of the equity interests referred to in clause (i)or (ii)upon any consolidation or merger of any issuer of such equity interests. pledgor shall have the meaning assigned to such term in the preamble hereof. real property shall mean, collectively, all right, title and interest (including any leasehold, mineral or other estate) in and to any and all parcels of or interests in real property owned, leased or operated by any person, whether by lease, license or other means, together with, in each case, all easements, hereditaments and appurtenances relating thereto, all improvements and appurtenant fixtures and equipment, all general intangibles and contract rights and other property and rights incidental to the ownership, lease or operation thereof. receivables shall mean all (i)accounts, (ii)chattel paper, (iii)payment intangibles, (iv)general intangibles, (v)instruments and (vi)all other rights to payment, whether or not earned by performance, for goods or other property sold, leased, licensed, assigned or otherwise disposed of, or services rendered or to be rendered, regardless of how classified under the ucc together with all of pledgors rights, if any, in any goods or other property giving rise to  -8- such right to payment and all collateral support and supporting obligations related thereto and all records relating thereto. second lien agent shall mean the bank of new york mellon trust company, n.a., in its capacity as collateral agent under the indenture agreement, and its permitted successors and assigns. second lien security agreement shall mean that certain security agreement dated as of august5, 2011 among the borrower as issuer under the indenture agreement, the guarantors party thereto and the second lien agent in its capacity as trustee (the trustee). secured obligations means any principal, premium, interest (including any interest accruing subsequent to the filing of a petition in bankruptcy, reorganization or similar proceeding at the rate provided for in the documentation with respect thereto, whether or not such interest is an allowed claim under applicable state, federal or foreign law), penalties, fees, indemnifications, reimbursements (including reimbursement obligations with respect to letters of credit and bankers acceptances), damages and other liabilities, and guarantees of payment of such principal, interest, penalties, fees, indemnifications, reimbursements, damages and other liabilities, payable under any of the credit agreement, the security documents or any other credit document. secured parties shall mean, collectively, the administrative agent, the lenders, the bank product providers and the issuing bank. securities account control agreement shall mean an agreement in a form that is reasonably satisfactory to the administrative agent establishing the administrative agents control with respect to any securities account. securities act shall mean the securities act of 1933, as amended. securities collateral shall mean, collectively, the pledged securities, the intercompany notes and the distributions. subsidiary means, with respect to any person, any corporation, limited or general partnership, trust, association or other business entity of which an aggregate of at least a majority of the outstanding voting interests therein is, at the time, directly or indirectly, owned by such person and/or one or more subsidiaries of such person. title company shall mean any title insurance company as shall be retained by any pledgor and reasonably acceptable to the administrative agent. trademarks shall mean, collectively, with respect to each pledgor, all trademarks (including service marks), slogans, logos, certification marks, trade dress, uniform resource locations (urls), domain names, corporate names and trade names, whether registered or unregistered, owned by or assigned to such pledgor and all registrations and applications for the foregoing (whether statutory or common law and whether established or registered in the  -9- united states or any other country or any political subdivision thereof), together with any and all (i)rights and privileges arising under applicable law with respect to such pledgors use of any trademarks, (ii)reissues, continuations, extensions and renewals thereof and amendments thereto, (iii)income, fees, royalties, damages and payments now and hereafter due and/or payable thereunder and with respect thereto, including damages, claims and payments for past, present or future infringements thereof, (iv)rights corresponding thereto throughout the world and (v)rights to sue for past, present and future infringements thereof. trademark security agreement shall mean an agreement substantially in the form of exhibit5 hereto. ucc shall mean the uniform commercial code as in effect from time to time in the state of new york; provided, however, that, at any time, if by reason of mandatory provisions of law, any or all of the perfection or priority of the administrative agents and the secured parties security interest in any item or portion of the pledged collateral is governed by the uniform commercial code as in effect in a jurisdiction other than the state of new york, the term ucc shall mean the uniform commercial code as in effect, at such time, in such other jurisdiction for purposes of the provisions hereof relating to such perfection or priority and for purposes of definitions relating to such provisions. voting interests means, with respect to any person, securities of any class or classes of capital interests in such person entitling the holders thereof generally to vote on the election of members of the board of directors or comparable body of such person. section 1.2. interpretation. the rules of interpretation specified in the credit agreement (including section1.2 thereof) shall be applicable to this agreement. section 1.3. resolution of drafting ambiguities. each pledgor acknowledges and agrees that it was represented by counsel in connection with the execution and delivery hereof, that it and its counsel reviewed and participated in the preparation and negotiation hereof and that any rule of construction to the effect that ambiguities are to be resolved against the drafting party (i.e., the administrative agent) shall not be employed in the interpretation hereof. section 1.4. perfection certificate. the administrative agent, each secured party and each pledgor agree that the perfection certificate and all descriptions of pledged collateral and mortgaged property, schedules, amendments and supplements thereto are and shall at all times remain a part of this agreement.  -10- article ii grant of security and secured obligations section 2.1. grant of security interest. as collateral security for the payment and performance in full of all the secured obligations, each pledgor hereby pledges and grants to the administrative agent for the benefit of the secured parties, a lien on and security interest in all of the right, title and interest of such pledgor in, to and under the following property, wherever located, and whether now existing or hereafter arising or acquired from time to time (collectively, the pledged collateral):   (i) all accounts;   (ii) all equipment, goods, inventory and fixtures;   (iii) all documents, instruments, promissory notes and chattel paper;   (iv) all letters of credit and letter-of-credit rights;   (v) all securities collateral;   (vi) all investment property;   (vii) all intellectual property collateral;   (viii) the commercial tort claims described on schedule 12 to the perfection certificate;   (ix) all general intangibles;   (x) all money and all deposit accounts, securities accounts and commodities accounts;   (xi) all supporting obligations;   (xii) all bank products;   (xiii) any assets of pledgor that now or hereafter come into the possession, custody, or control of administrative agent (or its agent or designee);   (xiv) all books and records relating to the pledged collateral; and   (xv) to the extent not covered by clauses (i)through (xiv)of this sentence, all other personal property of such pledgor, whether tangible or intangible, and all proceeds and products of each of the foregoing and all accessions to, substitutions and replacements for, and rents, profits and products of,  -11-  each of the foregoing, any and all proceeds of any insurance, indemnity, warranty or guaranty payable to such pledgor from time to time with respect to any of the foregoing. notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in clauses (i)through (xv)above, the security interest created by this agreement shall not extend to, and the term pledged collateral shall not include, any excluded property from and after the closing date, no pledgor shall permit to become effective in any document creating, governing or providing for any permit, license or agreement a provision that would prohibit the creation of a lien on such permit, license or agreement in favor of the administrative agent unless such pledgor believes, in its reasonable judgment, that such prohibition is usual and customary in transactions of such type. section 2.2. filings. (i)each pledgor hereby irrevocably authorizes the administrative agent at any time and from time to time to file in any relevant jurisdiction any financing statements (including fixture filings) and amendments thereto that contain the information required by article 9 of the ucc of each applicable jurisdiction for the filing of any financing statement or amendment relating to the pledged collateral, including (i)whether such pledgor is an organization, the type of organization and any organizational identification number issued to such pledgor, (ii)any financing or continuation statements or other documents without the signature of such pledgor where permitted by law, including the filing of a financing statement describing the pledged collateral as all assets now owned or hereafter acquired by the pledgor or in which pledgor otherwise has rights and (iii)in the case of a financing statement filed as a fixture filing or covering pledged collateral constituting minerals or the like to be extracted or timber to be cut, a sufficient description of the real property to which such pledged collateral relates. each pledgor agrees to provide all information described in the immediately preceding sentence to the administrative agent promptly upon request by the administrative agent. (a) each pledgor hereby ratifies its authorization for the administrative agent to file in any relevant jurisdiction any financing statements relating to the pledged collateral if filed prior to the date hereof. (b) each pledgor hereby further authorizes the administrative agent to file filings with the united states patent and trademark office or united states copyright office (or any successor office or any similar office in any other country), including, the copyright security agreement, the patent security agreement and the trademark security agreement, or other documents for the purpose of perfecting, confirming, continuing, enforcing or protecting the security interest granted by such pledgor hereunder, without the signature of such pledgor, and naming such pledgor, as debtor, and the administrative agent, as secured party. (c) notwithstanding the foregoing authorizations, in no event shall the administrative agent be obligated to prepare or file any financing statements whatsoever, or to maintain the perfection of the security interest granted hereunder. each pledgor agrees to prepare, record and file, at its own expense, financing statements (and continuation statements when applicable) with respect to the collateral now existing or hereafter created meeting the requirements  -12- of applicable state law in such manner and in such jurisdictions as are necessary to perfect and maintain perfected the collateral, and to deliver a file stamped copy of each such financing statement or other evidence of filing to the administrative agent. neither the trustee nor the administrative agent shall be under any obligation whatsoever to file any such financing or continuation statements or to make any other filing under the ucc in connection with this agreement. section 2.3. first priority nature of liens. notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the lien and security interest granted to the administrative agent pursuant to this agreement shall be a first priority lien on and security interest in the pledged collateral. the exercise of any right or remedy by the administrative agent hereunder is subject to the provisions of the intercreditor agreement. in the event of any conflict between the terms of the intercreditor agreement and this agreement, the terms of the intercreditor agreement shall govern and control. article iii perfection; supplements; further assurances; use of pledged collateral section 3.1. delivery of certificated securities collateral. each pledgor represents and warrants that all certificates, agreements or instruments representing or evidencing the securities collateral in existence on the date hereof, have been delivered to the administrative agent for the benefit of the administrative agent in suitable form for transfer by delivery or accompanied by duly executed instruments of transfer or assignment in blank, and that the administrative agent has a perfected first priority security interest therein. each pledgor hereby agrees that all certificates, agreements or instruments representing or evidencing securities collateral acquired by such pledgor after the date hereof shall promptly (but in any event within thirty (30)days after receipt thereof by such pledgor) be delivered to and held by or on behalf of the administrative agent pursuant hereto. the requirements in the preceding two sentences shall not apply to the extent that the face value of the securities collateral (other than any subsidiary equity interests) does not exceed $1,000,000 in the aggregate for all pledgors. all certificated securities collateral shall be in suitable form for transfer by delivery or shall be accompanied by duly executed instruments of transfer or assignment in blank, all in form and substance satisfactory to the administrative agent. the administrative agent shall have the right, at any time upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any event of default, to endorse, assign or otherwise transfer to or to register in the name of the administrative agent or any of its nominees or endorse for negotiation any or all of the securities collateral, without any indication that such securities collateral is subject to the security interest hereunder. in addition, upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an event of default, the administrative agent shall have the right at any time to exchange certificates representing or evidencing securities collateral for certificates of smaller or larger denominations.  -13- section 3.2. perfection of uncertificated securities collateral. each pledgor represents and warrants that the administrative agent has a perfected first priority security interest in all uncertificated pledged securities pledged by it hereunder that are in existence on the date hereof. each pledgor hereby agrees that if any of the pledged securities are at any time not evidenced by certificates of ownership, then each applicable pledgor shall, to the extent permitted by applicable law, (i)cause the issuer to execute and deliver to the administrative agent an acknowledgment of the pledge of such pledged securities substantially in the form of exhibit1 hereto, (ii)if necessary or desirable to perfect a security interest in such pledged securities, cause such pledge to be recorded on the equityholder register or the books of the borrower, execute any customary pledge forms or other documents necessary or appropriate to complete the pledge and give the administrative agent the right to transfer such pledged securities under the terms hereof, and (iii)after the occurrence and during the continuance of any event of default, upon request by the administrative agent, (a)cause the organization documents of each such borrower that is a subsidiary of the borrower to be amended to provide that such pledged securities shall be treated as securities for purposes of the ucc and (b)cause such pledged securities to become certificated and delivered to the administrative agent in accordance with the provisions of section3.1. section 3.3. financing statements and other filings; maintenance of perfected security interest. each pledgor represents and warrants that all financing statements, agreements, instruments and other documents necessary to perfect the security interest granted by it to the administrative agent in respect of the pledged collateral have been delivered to the administrative agent in completed and, to the extent necessary, duly executed form for filing in each governmental, municipal or other office specified in schedule 6 to the perfection certificate. each pledgor agrees that at the sole cost and expense of the pledgors, such pledgor will maintain the security interest created by this agreement in the pledged collateral as a perfected first priority security interest subject only to permitted liens and file all ucc-3 continuation statements necessary to continue the perfection of the security interest created by this agreement. section 3.4. other actions. in order to further ensure the attachment, perfection and priority of, and the ability of the administrative agent to enforce, the administrative agents security interest in the pledged collateral, each pledgor represents and warrants (as to itself) as follows and agrees, in each case at such pledgors own expense, to take the following actions with respect to the following pledged collateral: (a) instruments and tangible chattel paper. as of the date hereof, no amounts payable under or in connection with any of the pledged collateral are evidenced by any instrument or tangible chattel paper other than such instruments and tangible chattel paper listed in schedule10 to the perfection certificate. each instrument and each item of tangible chattel paper listed in schedule 10 to the perfection certificate has been properly endorsed, assigned and delivered to the administrative agent, accompanied by instruments of transfer or assignment duly executed in blank. at any time such requirements apply, the applicable pledgor shall give notice thereof to the administrative agent in accordance with section9.2 of the credit agreement and the administrative  -14- agent shall not be charged with any knowledge that such requirements are applicable unless such notice has been given. if any amount then payable under or in connection with any of the pledged collateral shall be evidenced by any instrument or tangible chattel paper, and such amount, together with all amounts payable evidenced by any instrument or tangible chattel paper not previously delivered to the administrative agent exceeds $1,000,000 in the aggregate for all pledgors, the pledgor acquiring such instrument or tangible chattel paper shall promptly (but in any event within thirty (30)days after receipt thereof) endorse, assign and deliver the same to the administrative agent, accompanied by such instruments of transfer or assignment duly executed in blank as the administrative agent may from time to time specify. (b) deposit accounts. as of the date hereof, no pledgor has any deposit accounts other than the accounts listed in schedule 13 to the perfection certificate. within forty-five (45)days after the closing date (or such longer period of time as agreed to by the administrative agent in its sole discretion), the administrative agent will have a first priority security interest in each such deposit account, which security interest will be, upon the execution and delivery of a deposit account control agreement with respect thereto perfected by control. no pledgor shall hereafter establish and maintain any deposit account with any bank unless such bank and such pledgor shall have duly executed and delivered to the administrative agent a deposit account control agreement with respect to such deposit account. at any time such requirements apply, the applicable pledgor shall give notice thereof to the administrative agent in accordance with section9.2 of the credit agreement and the administrative agent shall not be charged with any knowledge that such requirements are applicable unless such notice has been given. the administrative agent agrees with each pledgor that the administrative agent shall not give any instructions directing the disposition of funds from time to time credited to any deposit account or withhold any withdrawal rights from such pledgor with respect to funds from time to time credited to any deposit account unless an event of default has occurred and is continuing. each pledgor agrees that once the administrative agent sends an instruction or notice to a bank exercising its control over any deposit account such pledgor shall not give any instructions or orders with respect to such deposit account including, without limitation, instructions for distribution or transfer of any funds in such deposit account. no pledgor shall grant control of any deposit account to any person other than the administrative agent. (c) securities accounts and commodity accounts. (a)as of the date hereof, no pledgor has any securities accounts or commodity accounts other than those listed in schedule 13 to the perfection certificate. within forty-five (45)days after the closing date (or such longer period of time as agreed by the administrative agent in its sole discretion), the administrative agent will have a first priority security interest in each such securities account and commodity account, which security interest will be, in the case of securities accounts, upon the execution and delivery of a securities account control agreement with respect thereto, perfected by control. no pledgor shall hereafter establish and maintain any securities account or commodity account with any securities intermediary or commodity intermediary unless such securities intermediary or commodity  -15- intermediary, as the case may be, and such pledgor shall have duly executed and delivered a control agreement with respect to such securities account or commodity account, as the case may be. at any time such requirements apply, the applicable pledgor shall give notice thereof to the administrative agent in accordance with section9.2 of the credit agreement and the administrative agent shall not be charged with any knowledge that such requirements are applicable unless such notice has been given. each pledgor shall accept any cash and investment property in trust for the benefit of the administrative agent and within five (5)business days of actual receipt thereof, deposit any and all cash and investment property received by it into a deposit account or securities account subject to administrative agents control. the administrative agent agrees with each pledgor that the administrative agent shall not give any entitlement orders or instructions or directions to any borrower of uncertificated securities, securities intermediary or commodity intermediary, and shall not withhold its consent to the exercise of any withdrawal or dealing rights by such pledgor, unless an event of default has occurred and is continuing or, after giving effect to any such investment and withdrawal rights, would occur. each pledgor agrees that once the administrative agent sends an instruction or notice to a securities intermediary or commodity intermediary exercising its control over any securities account and commodity account such pledgor shall not give any instructions or orders with respect to such securities account and commodity account including, without limitation, instructions for investment, distribution or transfer of any investment property or financial asset maintained in such securities account or commodity account. no pledgor shall grant control over any investment property to any person other than the administrative agent. as between the administrative agent and the pledgors, the pledgors shall bear the investment risk with respect to the investment property and pledged securities, and the risk of loss of, damage to, or the destruction of the investment property and pledged securities, whether in the possession of, or maintained as a security entitlement or deposit by, or subject to the control of, the administrative agent, a securities intermediary, a commodity intermediary, any pledgor or any other person. (d) electronic chattel paper and transferable records. as of the date hereof, no amount under or in connection with any of the pledged collateral is evidenced by any electronic chattel paper or any transferable record (as that term is defined in section201 of the federal electronic signatures in global and national commerce act, or in section16 of the uniform electronic transactions act as in effect in any relevant jurisdiction) other than such electronic chattel paper and transferable records listed in schedule 10 to the perfection certificate. if any amount payable under or in connection with any of the pledged collateral shall be evidenced by any electronic chattel paper or any transferable record, the pledgor acquiring such electronic chattel paper or transferable record shall promptly notify the administrative agent thereof and shall take such action as is reasonably necessary to vest in the administrative agent control of such electronic chattel paper under section9-105 of the ucc or control under section201 of the federal electronic signatures in global and national commerce act or, as the case may be, section16 of the uniform electronic transactions act, as so in effect in such jurisdiction, of such transferable record. the requirement in the preceding sentence shall not apply  -16- to the extent that such amount, together with all amounts payable evidenced by electronic chattel paper or any transferable record in which the administrative agent has not been vested control within the meaning of the statutes described in the immediately preceding sentence, does not exceed $3,000,000 in the aggregate for all pledgors. at any time such requirement applies, the applicable pledgor shall give notice thereof to the administrative agent in accordance with section9.2 of the credit agreement and the administrative agent shall not be charged with any knowledge that such requirements are applicable unless such notice has been given. the pledgors may make alterations to the electronic chattel paper or transferable record, provided that such alterations are permitted under section9-105 of the ucc or section201 of the federal electronic signatures in global and national commerce act or section16 of the uniform electronic transactions act, as determined by the borrower, and unless an event of default has occurred and is continuing. (e) letter-of-credit rights. if any pledgor is at any time a beneficiary under a letter of credit now or hereafter issued, such pledgor shall promptly (but in any event within thirty (30)days after receipt thereof by such pledgor) notify the administrative agent thereof and such pledgor shall, either (i)use commercially reasonable efforts to arrange for the borrower and any confirmer of such letter of credit to consent to an assignment to the administrative agent of the proceeds of any drawing under the letter of credit or (ii)arrange for the administrative agent to become the transferee beneficiary of such letter of credit, with the administrative agent agreeing, in each case, that the proceeds of any drawing under the letter of credit are to be applied as provided in the credit agreement. the actions in the preceding sentence shall not be required to the extent that the amount of any such letter of credit, together with the aggregate amount of (a)all other letters of credit for which the actions described above in clause (i)and (ii)have not been taken and (b)all commercial tort claims in which the administrative agent does not have a perfected security interest and (c)all motor vehicles (and any such other equipment covered by certificates of title or ownership) as to which any pledgor has not delivered a certificate of title or ownership to the administrative agent, does not exceed $5,000,000 in the aggregate for all pledgors. at any time such action is required, the applicable pledgor shall give notice thereof to the administrative agent in accordance with section9.2 of the credit agreement and the administrative agent shall not be charged with any knowledge that such requirement is applicable unless such notice has been given. (f) commercial tort claims. as of the date hereof, each pledgor hereby represents and warrants that it holds no commercial tort claims other than those listed in schedule 12 to the perfection certificate. if any pledgor shall at any time hold or acquire a commercial tort claim, such pledgor shall promptly, and in any event within thirty (30)days, notify the administrative agent in writing signed by such pledgor of the brief details thereof and grant to the administrative agent in such writing a security interest therein and in the proceeds thereof, all upon the terms of this agreement, with such writing to be in such form and substance as is reasonably necessary to grant a security interest in such commercial tort claim. the requirement in the preceding sentence shall not apply  -17- to the extent that the amount of such commercial tort claim, together with the amount of (a)all other commercial tort claims held by any pledgor in which the administrative agent does not have a perfected security interest, (b)all letters of credit (except to the extent constituting supporting obligations) in which the administrative agent does not have a perfected security interest and (c)all motor vehicles (and any such other equipment covered by certificates of title or ownership) as to which any pledgor has not delivered a certificate of title or ownership to the administrative agent, does not exceed $5,000,000 in the aggregate for all pledgors. at any time such requirement applies, the applicable pledgor shall give notice thereof to the administrative agent in accordance with section9.2 of the credit agreement and the administrative agent shall not be charged with any knowledge that such requirement is applicable unless such notice has been given. (g) each pledgor shall deliver to the administrative agent originals of the certificates of title or ownership for the motor vehicles (and any other equipment covered by certificates of title or ownership) owned by it, with the administrative agent listed as lienholder therein.such requirement shall not apply to the extent the aggregate amount of (a)all motor vehicles (and any such other equipment covered by certificates of title or ownership) as to which any pledgor has not delivered a certificate of title or ownership to the administrative agent, (b)all commercial tort claims in which the administrative agent does not have a perfected security interest and (c)all letters of credit (except to the extent constituting supporting obligations) in which the administrative agent does not have a perfected security, does not exceed $5,000,000 in the aggregate for all pledgors. (h) after-acquired collateral. unless otherwise provided, upon the acquisition by the borrower or any guarantor after the date hereof (1)any after-acquired assets, including, but not limited to, any after-acquired real property or any equipment or fixtures which constitute accretions, additions or technological upgrades to the equipment or fixtures or any working capital assets that, in any such case, form part of the collateral, or (2)any replacement assets, the borrower or such pledgor shall execute and deliver, (i)with regard to any real property that is acquired for the purpose of serving as a restaurant, mortgages and related documentation and opinions as specified in section4.10 hereof within 365 days of the date of acquisition, (ii)with regard to any other real property, mortgages and related documentation and opinions as specified in section4.10 within 180 days of the date of acquisition (or such later date as any applicable regulatory approvals have been obtained) and (iii)to the extent required by the security documents, any information, documentation, financing statements or other certificates as may be necessary to vest in the administrative agent a perfected security interest, subject only to permitted liens, in such after-acquired property (other than excluded property and collateral that the borrower or such guarantor is not required to take actions to perfect) and to have such after-acquired property added to the collateral, and thereupon all provisions of the credit agreement, the security documents and the intercreditor agreement relating to the collateral shall be deemed to relate to such after-acquired property to the same extent and with the same force and effect.  -18- section 3.5. joinder of additional guarantors. the pledgors shall cause each subsidiary of the borrower which, from time to time, after the date hereof shall be required to pledge any assets to the administrative agent for the benefit of the secured parties pursuant to the provisions of sections 5.10 and 5.12 of the credit agreement, to execute and deliver to the administrative agent a joinder agreement in the form of exhibit 1.1(c) to the credit agreement. section 3.6. supplements; further assurances. each pledgor shall take such further actions, and execute and/or deliver to the administrative agent such additional financing statements, amendments, assignments, agreements, supplements, powers and instruments, as is reasonably necessary in order to create, perfect, preserve and protect the security interest in and lien on the pledged collateral and the mortgaged property as provided herein and the rights and interests granted to the administrative agent hereunder, to carry into effect the purposes hereof or better to assure and confirm the validity, enforceability and priority of the administrative agents security interest in and lien on the pledged collateral and mortgaged property or permit the administrative agent to exercise and enforce its rights, powers and remedies hereunder and the other security documents with respect to any pledged collateral and mortgaged property, including the filing of financing statements, continuation statements and other documents (including this agreement) under the ucc (or other similar laws) in effect in any jurisdiction with respect to the security interest created hereby and the execution and delivery of control agreements, in form reasonably satisfactory to the administrative agent and in such offices (including the united states patent and trademark office and the united states copyright office) wherever required by law to perfect, continue and maintain the validity, enforceability and priority of the security interest in and lien on the pledged collateral and mortgaged property as provided herein and the other security documents and to preserve the other rights and interests granted to the administrative agent hereunder and the other security documents, as against third parties, with respect to the pledged collateral and mortgaged property. without limiting the generality of the foregoing, each pledgor shall make, execute, endorse, acknowledge, file or refile and/or deliver to the administrative agent from time to time upon reasonable request by the administrative agent such lists, schedules, descriptions and designations of the pledged collateral and mortgaged property, copies of warehouse receipts, receipts in the nature of warehouse receipts, bills of lading, documents of title, vouchers, invoices, schedules, confirmatory assignments, supplements, additional security agreements, conveyances, financing statements, transfer endorsements, powers of attorney, certificates, reports and other assurances or instruments as the administrative agent shall reasonably request. if an event of default has occurred and is continuing, the administrative agent may institute and maintain, in its own name or in the name of any pledgor, such suits and proceedings as the administrative agent may be advised by counsel shall be necessary or expedient to prevent any impairment of the security interest in or lien on or the perfection thereof in the pledged collateral and mortgaged property. all of the foregoing shall be at the sole cost and expense of the pledgors.  -19- article iv representations, warranties and covenants each pledgor represents, warrants and covenants as follows: section 4.1. title. except for the security interest granted to the administrative agent for the benefit of the secured parties pursuant to this agreement and permitted liens, such pledgor owns and has rights and, as to pledged collateral acquired by it from time to time after the date hereof, will own and have rights in each item of pledged collateral pledged by it hereunder, free and clear of any and all liens. in addition, no liens or claims exist on the securities collateral, other than as permitted by section6.2 of the credit agreement. section 4.2. validity of security interest. the security interest in and lien on the pledged collateral granted to the administrative agent for the benefit of the secured parties hereunder constitutes (a)a legal and valid security interest in all the pledged collateral securing the payment and performance of the secured obligations, and (b)subject to the filings and other actions described in schedule 6 to the perfection certificate (to the extent required to be listed on the schedules to the perfection certificate as of the date this representation is made or deemed made), a perfected security interest in all the pledged collateral. the security interest and lien granted to the administrative agent for the benefit of the secured parties pursuant to this agreement in and on the pledged collateral will at all times constitute a perfected, continuing security interest therein, prior to all other liens on the pledged collateral except for permitted liens. section 4.3. defense of claims; transferability of pledged collateral. each pledgor shall, at its own cost and expense, defend title to the pledged collateral pledged by it hereunder and the security interest therein and lien thereon granted to the administrative agent and the priority thereof against all claims and demands of all persons, at its own cost and expense, at any time claiming any interest therein adverse to the administrative agent or any other secured party other than permitted liens. there is no agreement (other than with respect to a permitted lien), order, judgment or decree, and no pledgor shall enter into any agreement (other than with respect to a permitted lien) or take any other action, that would restrict the transferability of any of the pledged collateral or otherwise impair or conflict with such pledgors obligations or the rights of the administrative agent hereunder. section 4.4. other financing statements. it has not filed, nor authorized any third party to file (nor will there be), any valid or effective financing statement (or similar statement, instrument of registration or public notice under the law of any jurisdiction) covering or purporting to cover any interest of any kind in the pledged collateral, except such as have been filed in favor of the administrative agent or in favor of the second lien agent pursuant to this agreement or in favor of any holder of a permitted lien with respect to such lien or financing statements or public notices relating to the termination statements listed on schedule 8 to the perfection certificate. no pledgor shall execute, authorize or permit to be filed in any public  -20- office any financing statement (or similar statement, instrument of registration or public notice under the law of any jurisdiction) relating to any pledged collateral, except financing statements and other statements and instruments filed or to be filed in respect of and covering the security interests granted by such pledgor to the holders of the permitted liens. section 4.5. location of inventory and equipment. it shall not move any equipment or inventory with a fair market value in excess of $3,000,000 in the aggregate to any location, other than any location that is listed in the relevant schedules to the perfection certificate, unless it shall have given the administrative agent not less than 30 days prior written notice of its intention so to do, clearly describing such new location and confirming the attachment of the lien and security interest created by this agreement to the collateral located in the new location, and confirming further that each pledgor has executed and filed any instruments or statements necessary to create, preserve or perfect the administrative agents security interest in such relocated collateral; provided that in no event shall any equipment or inventory be moved to any location outside of the continental united states. section 4.6. due authorization and issuance. all of the pledged securities existing on the date hereof have been, and to the extent any pledged securities are hereafter issued, such pledged securities will be, upon such issuance, duly authorized, validly issued and fully paid and non-assessable to the extent applicable. to the knowledge of the pledgors, there is no amount or other obligation owing by any pledgor to any borrower of the pledged securities in exchange for or in connection with the issuance of the pledged securities or any pledgors status as a partner or a member of any borrower of the pledged securities. section 4.7. consents, etc. in the event that the administrative agent desires to exercise any remedies, voting or consensual rights or attorney-in-fact powers set forth in this agreement or the other security documents and determines it necessary to obtain any approvals or consents of any governmental authority or any other person therefor, then, upon the reasonable request of the administrative agent, such pledgor agrees to use its commercially reasonable efforts to assist and aid the administrative agent to obtain as soon as practicable any necessary approvals or consents for the exercise of any such remedies, rights and powers. section 4.8. pledged collateral and mortgaged property. all information set forth herein, including the schedules hereto, and all information contained in any documents, schedules and lists heretofore delivered to any secured party, including the perfection certificate and the schedules thereto, in connection with this agreement, in each case, relating to the pledged collateral and mortgaged property, is accurate and complete in all material respects. the pledged collateral and mortgaged property described on the schedules to the perfection certificate constitutes all of the property of such type of pledged collateral and mortgaged property owned or held by the pledgors. section 4.9. insurance. in the event that the proceeds of any insurance claim are paid to any pledgor after the administrative agent has exercised its right to foreclose after an event of default, such net cash proceeds shall, subject to the intercreditor agreement, be held in trust for the benefit of the administrative agent and promptly after receipt thereof shall be  -21- paid to the administrative agent for application in accordance with section2.7(b)(iv) of the credit agreement. section 4.10. post-closing collateral matters. the administrative agent shall have received from the borrower and each applicable pledgor all post-closing deliverables required to be delivered pursuant to section5.13(e) of the credit agreement. section 4.11. no impairment of the security interests. no pledgor shall take any action, or knowingly or negligently omit to take any action, which action or omission might or would have the result of materially impairing the security interest with respect to the pledged collateral or mortgaged property. article v certain provisions concerning securities collateral section 5.1. pledge of additional securities collateral. upon obtaining any pledged securities or intercompany notes of any person, each pledgor shall maintain such pledged securities or intercompany notes in trust for the benefit of the administrative agent. for any such pledged securities or intercompany notes having a face value in excess of $3,000,000 (other than any equity interests of a subsidiary), each pledgor shall promptly (but in any event within thirty (30)days after receipt thereof) deliver to the administrative agent a pledge amendment in substantially the form of exhibit 1 hereto (each, a pledge amendment), and the certificates and other documents required under section3.1 and section3.2. each pledgor shall confirm the attachment of the lien hereby created on and in respect of such additional pledged securities or intercompany notes. each pledgor hereby authorizes the administrative agent to attach each pledge amendment to this agreement and agrees that all pledged securities or intercompany notes listed on any such pledge amendment shall for all purposes hereunder be considered pledged collateral. section 5.2. voting rights; distributions; etc. (a) so long as no event of default shall have occurred and be continuing: (i) each pledgor shall be entitled to exercise any and all voting and other consensual rights pertaining to the securities collateral or any part thereof for any purpose not inconsistent with the terms or purposes hereof, the credit agreement or any other document evidencing the secured obligations. (ii) each pledgor shall be entitled to receive and retain, and to utilize free and clear of the lien hereof, any and all distributions, but only if and to the extent made in accordance with the provisions of the credit agreement; provided, however, that any and all such distributions consisting of rights or interests in the form of securities shall be forthwith delivered to the administrative agent to hold as pledged collateral and shall, if  -22- received by any pledgor, be received in trust for the benefit of the administrative agent, be segregated from the other property or funds of such pledgor and be promptly (but in any event within five days after receipt thereof) delivered to the administrative agent as pledged collateral in the same form as so received (with any necessary endorsement). (b) so long as no event of default shall have occurred and be continuing, the administrative agent shall be deemed without further action or formality to have granted to each pledgor all necessary consents relating to voting rights and shall, ifnecessary, upon written request of any pledgor and at the sole cost and expense of the pledgors, from time to time execute and deliver (or cause to be executed and delivered) to such pledgor all such instruments as such pledgor may reasonably request in order to permit such pledgor to exercise the voting and other rights which it is entitled to exercise pursuant to section5.2(a)(i) hereof and to receive the distributions which it is authorized to receive and retain pursuant to section5.2(a)(ii) hereof. (c) upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any event of default and upon notice from the administrative agent: (i) all rights of each pledgor to exercise the voting and other consensual rights it would otherwise be entitled to exercise pursuant to section5.2(a)(i) hereof shall immediately cease, and all such rights shall thereupon become vested in the administrative agent, which shall thereupon have the sole right to exercise such voting and other consensual rights. (ii) all rights of each pledgor to receive distributions which it would otherwise be authorized to receive and retain pursuant to section5.2(a)(ii) hereof shall immediately cease and all such rights shall thereupon become vested in the administrative agent, which shall thereupon have the sole right to receive and hold as pledged collateral such distributions. (d) each pledgor shall, at its sole cost and expense, from time to time execute and deliver to the administrative agent appropriate instruments as the administrative agent may request in order to permit the administrative agent to exercise the voting and other rights which it may be entitled to exercise pursuant to section5.2(c)(i) hereof and to receive all distributions which it may be entitled to receive under section5.2(c)(ii) hereof. (e) all distributions which are received by any pledgor contrary to the provisions of section5.2(a)(ii) hereof shall be received in trust for the benefit of the administrative agent, shall be segregated from other funds of such pledgor and shall immediately be paid over to the administrative agent as pledged collateral in the same form as so received (with any necessary endorsement). section 5.3. defaults, etc. each pledgor hereby represents and warrants that (i)such pledgor is not in default in the payment of any portion of any mandatory capital contribution, if any, required to be made under any agreement to which such pledgor is a party relating to the pledged securities pledged by it, (ii)no securities collateral pledged by such pledgor is subject to any defense, offset or counterclaim, nor have any of the foregoing been asserted or  -23- alleged against such pledgor by any person with respect thereto, and (iii)as of the date hereof, there are no certificates, instruments, documents or other writings (other than the organization documents that have been delivered to the administrative agent and certificates representing such pledged securities that have been delivered to the administrative agent) which evidence any pledged securities of such pledgor. section 5.4. certain agreements of pledgors as issuers and holders of equity interests. in the case of each pledgor which is an issuer of securities collateral, such pledgor agrees to be bound by the terms of this agreement relating to the securities collateral issued by it and will comply with such terms insofar as such terms are applicable to it. (b) in the case of each pledgor which is a partner, shareholder or member, as the case may be, in a partnership, limited liability company or other entity, such pledgor hereby consents to the extent required by the applicable organization document to the pledge by each other pledgor, pursuant to the terms hereof, of the pledged securities in such partnership, limited liability company or other entity and, upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an event of default, to the transfer of such pledged securities to the administrative agent or its nominee and to the substitution of the administrative agent or its nominee as a substituted partner, shareholder or member in such partnership, limited liability company or other entity with all the rights, powers and duties of a general partner, limited partner, shareholder or member, as the case may be. article vi certain provisions concerning intellectual property collateral section 6.1. grant of intellectual property license. for the purpose of enabling the administrative agent, during the continuance of an event of default, to exercise rights and remedies under article ix hereof at such time as the administrative agent shall be lawfully entitled to exercise such rights and remedies, and for no other purpose, each pledgor hereby grants to the administrative agent, to the extent assignable, an irrevocable, non-exclusive license to use, assign, license or sublicense any of the intellectual property collateral now owned or hereafter acquired by such pledgor, wherever the same may be located. such license shall include access to all media in which any of the licensed items may be recorded or stored and to all computer programs used for the compilation or printout hereof. section 6.2. protection of administrative agents security. on a continuing basis, each pledgor shall, at its sole cost and expense, (i)promptly following its becoming aware thereof, notify the administrative agent of any adverse determination in any proceeding or the institution of any proceeding in any federal, state or local court or administrative body or in the united states patent and trademark office or the united states copyright office regarding any intellectual property collateral, such pledgors right to register such intellectual property collateral or its right to keep and maintain such registration in full force and effect to the extent that  -24- such intellectual property collateral exceeds $1,000,000 (ii)maintain all intellectual property collateral as presently used and operated, (iii)not permit to lapse or become abandoned any intellectual property collateral, and not settle or compromise any pending or future litigation or administrative proceeding with respect to any such intellectual property collateral, in either case except as shall be consistent with commercially reasonable business judgment, (iv)upon such pledgor obtaining knowledge thereof, promptly notify the administrative agent in writing of any event which may be reasonably expected to materially and adversely affect the value or utility of any intellectual property collateral or the rights and remedies of the administrative agent in relation thereto including a levy or threat of levy or any legal process against any intellectual property collateral, (v)not license any intellectual property collateral other than licenses entered into by such pledgor in, or incidental to, the ordinary course of business, or amend or permit the amendment of any of the licenses in a manner that materially and adversely affects the right to receive payments thereunder, or in any manner that would materially impair the value of any intellectual property collateral or the lien on and security interest in the intellectual property collateral created therein hereby and (vi)diligently keep adequate records respecting all intellectual property collateral. section 6.3. after-acquired property. if any pledgor shall at any time after the date hereof (i)obtain any rights to any additional intellectual property collateral or (ii)become entitled to the benefit of any additional intellectual property collateral or any renewal or extension thereof, including any reissue, division, continuation, or continuation-in-part of any intellectual property collateral, or any improvement on any intellectual property collateral, or if any intent-to use trademark application is no longer subject to clause (d)of the definition of excluded property, the provisions hereof shall automatically apply thereto and any such item enumerated in the preceding clause (i)or (ii)shall automatically constitute intellectual property collateral as if such would have constituted intellectual property collateral at the time of execution hereof and be subject to the lien and security interest created by this agreement without further action by any party. each pledgor shall promptly (and in any event within 30 days) provide to the administrative agent written notice of any of the foregoing and confirm the attachment of the lien and security interest created by this agreement to any rights described in clauses (i)and (ii)above by execution of an instrument in form reasonably necessary to grant such a security interest to the administrative agent and the filing of any instruments or statements as shall be reasonably necessary to create, preserve, protect or perfect the administrative agents security interest in such intellectual property collateral. further, each pledgor agrees to modify this agreement by amending schedules 11(a) and 11(b) to the perfection certificate to include any intellectual property collateral of such pledgor acquired or arising after the date hereof. section 6.4. litigation. unless there shall occur and be continuing any event of default, each pledgor shall have the right to commence and prosecute in its own name, as the party in interest, for its own benefit and at the sole cost and expense of the pledgors, such applications for protection of the intellectual property collateral and suits, proceedings or other actions to prevent the infringement, counterfeiting, unfair competition, dilution, diminution in value or other damage as are necessary to protect the intellectual property collateral. upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any event of default, the administrative agent shall have the right but shall in no way be obligated to file applications for protection of the intellectual property collateral and/or bring suit in the name of any pledgor, the administrative agent or the secured parties to enforce the intellectual  -25- property collateral and any license thereunder. in the event of such suit, each pledgor shall, at the reasonable request of the administrative agent, do any and all lawful acts and execute any and all documents requested by the administrative agent in aid of such enforcement and the pledgors shall promptly reimburse and indemnify the administrative agent for all costs and expenses incurred by the administrative agent in the exercise of its rights under this section6.4 in accordance with section9.5 of the credit agreement. in the event that the administrative agent shall elect not to bring suit to enforce the intellectual property collateral, each pledgor agrees, at the reasonable request of the administrative agent, to take all commercially reasonable actions necessary, whether by suit, proceeding or other action, to prevent the infringement, counterfeiting, unfair competition, dilution, diminution in value of or other damage to any of the intellectual property collateral by any person. article vii [reserved] article viii transfers section 8.1. transfers of pledged collateral or mortgaged property. no pledgor shall sell, convey, assign or otherwise dispose of, or grant any option with respect to, any of the pledged collateral or mortgaged property pledged by it hereunder except as expressly permitted by the credit agreement. article ix remedies section 9.1. remedies. subject to the terms of the intercreditor agreement, upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any event of default, the administrative agent may, but shall not be obligated to, from time to time exercise in respect of the pledged collateral, in addition to the other rights and remedies provided for herein or otherwise available to it, the following remedies: (i) personally, or by agents or attorneys, immediately take possession of the pledged collateral or any part thereof, from any pledgor or any other person who then has possession of any part thereof with or without notice or process of law, and for that purpose may enter upon any pledgors premises where any of the pledged collateral is located, remove such pledged collateral, remain present at such premises to receive copies of all communications and  -26- remittances relating to the pledged collateral and use in connection with such removal and possession any and all services, supplies, aids and other facilities of any pledgor; (ii) demand, sue for, collect or receive any money or property at any time payable or receivable in respect of the pledged collateral including instructing the obligor or obligors on any agreement, instrument or other obligation constituting part of the pledged collateral to make any payment required by the terms of such agreement, instrument or other obligation directly to the administrative agent, and in connection with any of the foregoing, compromise, settle, extend the time for payment and make other modifications with respect thereto; provided, however, that in the event that any such payments are made directly to any pledgor, prior to receipt by any such obligor of such instruction, such pledgor shall segregate all amounts received pursuant thereto in trust for the benefit of the administrative agent and shall promptly (but in no event later than three (3)business days after receipt thereof) pay such amounts to the administrative agent; (iii) sell, assign, grant a license to use or otherwise liquidate, or direct any pledgor to sell, assign, grant a license to use or otherwise liquidate, any and all investments made in whole or in part with the pledged collateral or any part thereof, and take possession of the proceeds of any such sale, assignment, license or liquidation; (iv) take possession of the pledged collateral or any part thereof, by directing any pledgor in writing to deliver the same to the administrative agent at any place or places so designated by the administrative agent, in which event such pledgor shall at its own expense: (a)forthwith cause the same to be moved to the place or places designated by the administrative agent and therewith delivered to the administrative agent, (b)store and keep any pledged collateral so delivered to the administrative agent at such place or places pending further action by the administrative agent and (c)while the pledged collateral shall be so stored and kept, provide such security and maintenance services as shall be necessary to protect the same and to preserve and maintain them in good condition. each pledgors obligation to deliver the pledged collateral as contemplated in this section9.1(iv) is of the essence hereof. upon application to a court of equity having jurisdiction, the administrative agent shall be entitled to a decree requiring specific performance by any pledgor of such obligation; (v) withdraw all moneys, instruments, securities and other property in any bank, financial securities, deposit or other account of any pledgor constituting pledged collateral for application to the secured obligations as provided in article x hereof; (vi) retain and apply the distributions to the secured obligations as provided in articlex hereof; (vii) exercise any and all rights as beneficial and legal owner of the pledged collateral, including perfecting assignment of and exercising any and all voting, consensual and other rights and powers with respect to any pledged collateral; and (viii) exercise all the rights and remedies of a secured party on default under the ucc, and the administrative agent may also in its sole discretion, without notice except as  -27- specified in section9.2 hereof, sell, assign or grant a license to use the pledged collateral or any part thereof in one or more parcels at public or private sale, at any exchange, brokers board or at any of the administrative agents offices or elsewhere, for cash, on credit or for future delivery, and at such price or prices and upon such other terms as are commercially reasonable. the administrative agent or any other secured party or any of their respective affiliates may be the purchaser, licensee, assignee or recipient of the pledged collateral or any part thereof at any such sale and shall be entitled, for the purpose of bidding and making settlement or payment of the purchase price for all or any portion of the pledged collateral sold, assigned or licensed at such sale, to use and apply any of the secured obligations owed to such person as a credit on account of the purchase price of the pledged collateral or any part thereof payable by such person at such sale. each purchaser, assignee, licensee or recipient at any such sale shall acquire the property sold, assigned or licensed absolutely free from any claim or right on the part of any pledgor, and each pledgor hereby waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, all rights of redemption, stay and/or appraisal which it now has or may at any time in the future have under any rule of law or statute now existing or hereafter enacted. the administrative agent shall not be obligated to make any sale of the pledged collateral or any part thereof regardless of notice of sale having been given. the administrative agent may adjourn any public or private sale from time to time by announcement at the time and place fixed therefor, and such sale may, without further notice, be made at the time and place to which it was so adjourned. each pledgor hereby waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims against the administrative agent arising by reason of the fact that the price at which the pledged collateral or any part thereof may have been sold, assigned or licensed at such a private sale was less than the price which might have been obtained at a public sale, even if the administrative agent accepts the first offer received and does not offer such pledged collateral to more than one offeree. section 9.2. notice of sale. each pledgor acknowledges and agrees that, to the extent notice of sale or other disposition of the pledged collateral or any part thereof shall be required by law, ten (10)days prior notice to such pledgor of the time and place of any public sale or of the time after which any private sale or other intended disposition is to take place shall be commercially reasonable notification of such matters. no notification need be given to any pledgor if it has signed, after the occurrence of an event of default, a statement renouncing or modifying any right to notification of sale or other intended disposition. section 9.3. waiver of notice and claims. each pledgor hereby waives, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, notice or judicial hearing in connection with the administrative agents taking possession or the administrative agents disposition of the pledged collateral or any part thereof, including any and all prior notice and hearing for any prejudgment remedy or remedies and any such right which such pledgor would otherwise have under law, and each pledgor hereby further waives, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law: (i)all damages occasioned by such taking of possession, (ii)all other requirements as to the time, place and terms of sale or other requirements with respect to the enforcement of the administrative agents rights hereunder and (iii)all rights of redemption, appraisal, valuation, stay, extension or moratorium now or hereafter in force under any applicable law. the administrative agent shall not be liable for any incorrect or improper payment made pursuant to this articleix in the absence of gross negligence or willful misconduct on the part of the administrative agent.  -28- any sale of, or the grant of options to purchase, or any other realization upon, any pledged collateral shall operate to divest all right, title, interest, claim and demand, either at law or in equity, of the applicable pledgor therein and thereto, and shall be a perpetual bar both at law and in equity against such pledgor and against any and all persons claiming or attempting to claim the pledged collateral so sold, optioned or realized upon, or any part thereof, from, through or under such pledgor. section 9.4. certain sales of pledged collateral. (a) each pledgor recognizes that, by reason of certain prohibitions contained in law, rules, regulations or orders of any governmental authority, the administrative agent may be compelled, with respect to any sale of all or any part of the pledged collateral, to limit purchasers to those who meet the requirements of such governmental authority. each pledgor acknowledges that any such sales may be at prices and on terms less favorable to the administrative agent than those obtainable through a public sale without such restrictions, and, notwithstanding such circumstances, agrees that any such restricted sale shall be deemed to have been made in a commercially reasonable manner and that, except as may be required by applicable law, the administrative agent shall have no obligation to engage in public sales. (b) each pledgor recognizes that, by reason of certain prohibitions contained in the securities act, and applicable state securities laws, the administrative agent may be compelled, with respect to any sale of all or any part of the securities collateral and investment property, to limit purchasers to persons who will agree, among other things, to acquire such securities collateral or investment property for their own account, for investment and not with a view to the distribution or resale thereof. each pledgor acknowledges that any such private sales may be at prices and on terms less favorable to the administrative agent than those obtainable through a public sale without such restrictions (including a public offering made pursuant to a registration statement under the securities act), and, notwithstanding such circumstances, agrees that any such private sale shall be deemed to have been made in a commercially reasonable manner and that the administrative agent shall have no obligation to engage in public sales and no obligation to delay the sale of any securities collateral or investment property for the period of time necessary to permit the issuer thereof to register it for a form of public sale requiring registration under the securities act or under applicable state securities laws, even if such issuer would agree to do so. (c) if the administrative agent determines to exercise its right to sell any or all of the securities collateral or investment property, upon written request, the applicable pledgor shall determine and inform the administrative agent of the number of securities included in the securities collateral or investment property which may be sold by the administrative agent as exempt transactions under the securities act and the rules of the securities and exchange commission thereunder, as the same are from time to time in effect. (d) each pledgor further agrees that a breach of any of the covenants contained in this section9.4 will cause irreparable injury to the administrative agent and the other secured parties, that the administrative agent and the other secured parties have no adequate  -29- remedy at law in respect of such breach and, as a consequence, that each and every covenant contained in this section9.4 shall be specifically enforceable against such pledgor, and such pledgor hereby waives and agrees not to assert any defenses against an action for specific performance of such covenants except for a defense that no event of default has occurred and is continuing. section 9.5. no waiver; cumulative remedies. (a) no failure on the part of the administrative agent to exercise, no course of dealing with respect to, and no delay on the part of the administrative agent in exercising, any right, power or remedy hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right, power, privilege or remedy hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power, privilege or remedy; nor shall the administrative agent be required to look first to, enforce or exhaust any other security, collateral or guaranties. all rights and remedies herein provided are cumulative and are not exclusive of any rights or remedies provided by law or otherwise available. (b) in the event that the administrative agent shall have instituted any proceeding to enforce any right, power, privilege or remedy under this agreement or any other security document by foreclosure, sale, entry or otherwise, and such proceeding shall have been discontinued or abandoned for any reason or shall have been determined adversely to the administrative agent, then and in every such case, the pledgors, the administrative agent and each other secured party shall be restored to their respective former positions and rights hereunder with respect to the pledged collateral, and all rights, remedies, privileges and powers of the administrative agent and the other secured parties shall continue as if no such proceeding had been instituted. section 9.6. certain additional actions regarding intellectual property. if any event of default shall have occurred and be continuing, upon the written demand of the administrative agent, each pledgor shall execute and deliver to the administrative agent an assignment or assignments of the registered patents, trademarks and/or copyrights and goodwill and such other documents as are necessary or appropriate to carry out the intent and purposes hereof; provided that such assignments shall cease to be valid and shall become void at such time as all events of default have been cured or waived in accordance with the credit agreement. within five (5)business days of written notice thereafter from the administrative agent, each pledgor shall make available to the administrative agent, to the extent within such pledgors power and authority, such personnel in such pledgors employ on the date of the event of default as the administrative agent may reasonably designate to permit such pledgor to continue, directly or indirectly, to produce, advertise and sell the products and services sold by such pledgor under the registered patents, trademarks and/or copyrights, and such persons shall be available to perform their prior functions on the administrative agents behalf. section 9.7. [reserved]  -30- section 9.8. actions of administrative agent. the applicable authorized representative shall direct the administrative agent in exercising any right, power, discretionary duty or other remedy available to the administrative agent under this agreement or any security document and the other secured parties shall not have a right to take any actions with respect to the pledged collateral or mortgaged property. if the administrative agent shall not have received appropriate instruction within 10 days of a request therefor from the applicable authorized representative (or such shorter period as reasonably may be specified in such notice or as may be necessary under the circumstances) it may, but shall be under no duty to, take or refrain from taking such action as it shall deem to be in the best interests of the secured parties and the administrative agent shall have no liability to any person for such action or inaction. applicable authorized representative shall mean (i)the administrative agent so long as the obligations under the credit agreement constitute secured obligations hereunder. article x application of proceeds section 10.1. application of proceeds. the proceeds received by the administrative agent in respect of any sale of, collection from or other realization upon all or any part of the pledged collateral or mortgaged property pursuant to the exercise by the administrative agent of its remedies shall be applied as set forth in section2.11(b) of the credit agreement. article xi miscellaneous section 11.1. concerning administrative agent and the other security documents. (a) the administrative agent has been appointed as administrative agent pursuant to the credit agreement. the actions of the administrative agent hereunder are subject to the provisions of the credit agreement. the administrative agent shall have the right hereunder to make demands, to give notices, to exercise or refrain from exercising any rights, and to take or refrain from taking action (including the release or substitution of the pledged collateral or mortgaged property), in accordance with this agreement, the credit agreement, the other security documents and the other credit documents. the administrative agent may employ agents and attorneys-in-fact in connection herewith and shall not be liable for the negligence of any such agents or attorneys-in-fact selected by it in good faith. the administrative agent may resign in the manner provided in the credit agreement. a successor administrative agent may be appointed in the manner provided in the credit agreement. upon the acceptance of any appointment as the administrative agent by a successor administrative agent, that successor administrative agent shall thereupon succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers,  -31- privileges and duties of the retiring administrative agent under this agreement and the other security documents, and the retiring administrative agent shall thereupon be discharged from its duties and obligations under this agreement and the other security documents. after any retiring administrative agents resignation, the provisions hereof shall inure to its benefit as to any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it under this agreement while it was the administrative agent. (b) the administrative agent shall be deemed to have exercised reasonable care in the custody and preservation of the pledged collateral or mortgaged property in its possession if such pledged collateral or mortgaged property is accorded treatment substantially equivalent to that which the administrative agent, in its individual capacity, accords its own property consisting of similar instruments or interests, it being understood that neither the administrative agent nor any of the secured parties shall have responsibility for (i)ascertaining or taking action with respect to calls, conversions, exchanges, maturities, tenders or other matters relating to any securities collateral, whether or not the administrative agent or any other secured party has or is deemed to have knowledge of such matters or (ii)taking any necessary steps to preserve rights against any person with respect to any pledged collateral or mortgaged property. (c) the administrative agent shall be entitled to rely upon any written notice, statement, certificate, order or other document or any telephone message believed by it to be genuine and correct and to have been signed, sent or made by the proper person, and, with respect to all matters pertaining to this agreement and the other security documents and its duties hereunder and thereunder, upon advice of counsel selected by it. (d) if any item of pledged collateral or mortgaged property also constitutes collateral granted to the administrative agent under any other deed of trust, mortgage, security agreement, pledge or instrument of any type, in the event of any conflict between the provisions hereof and the provisions of such other deed of trust, mortgage, security agreement, pledge or instrument of any type in respect of such collateral, the administrative agent, in its sole discretion, shall select which provision or provisions shall control. (e) anything herein contained to the contrary notwithstanding, (i)each pledgor shall remain liable under this agreement and under each of the underlying contracts to which such pledgor a party described herein to perform all of its duties and obligations thereunder to the same extent as if this agreement had not been executed, (ii)the exercise by the administrative agent or the secured parties of any of their rights, remedies or powers hereunder shall not release any pledgor from any of its duties or obligations under this agreement or such underlying contracts described herein and (iii)neither the trustee or the administrative agent shall have any obligation or liability under such underlying contracts by reason of or arising out of this agreement, nor shall the noteholders, the trustee or the administrative agent be obligated to perform any of the obligations or duties of any of the pledgors hereunder or any of the contracts described herein.  -32- (f) the administrative agent shall not be responsible for the existence, genuineness or value of any of the pledged collateral or mortgaged property or for the validity, perfection, priority or enforceability of the liens in any of the pledged collateral or mortgaged property, whether impaired by operation of law or by reason of any of any action or omission to act on its part hereunder, except to the extent such action or omission constitutes gross negligence or willful misconduct on the part of the administrative agent. nor shall the administrative agent be responsible for the validity or sufficiency of the pledged collateral or mortgaged property or any agreement or assignment contained therein, for the validity of the title of the pledgors to the pledged collateral or mortgaged property, for insuring the pledged collateral or mortgaged property or for the payment of taxes, charges, assessments or liens upon the pledged collateral or mortgaged property or otherwise as to the maintenance of the pledged collateral or mortgaged property. (g) in the event that the administrative agent is required to acquire title to an asset for any reason, or take any managerial action of any kind in regard thereto, in order to carry out any duty for the benefit of another, which in the administrative agents sole discretion may cause it to be considered an owner or operator under the provisions of the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act (cercla), 42 u.s.c. 9601, et seq., or otherwise cause it to incur liability under cercla or any other federal, state or local law, the administrative agent reserves the right, instead of taking such action, to either resign as or arrange for the transfer of the title or control of the asset to a court-appointed receiver. the administrative agent shall not be liable to any person for any environmental claims or contribution actions under any federal, state or local law, rule or regulation by reason of the administrative agents actions and conduct as authorized, empowered and directed hereunder or relating to the discharge, release or threatened release of hazardous materials into the environment. if at any time it is necessary or advisable for any real property to be possessed, owned, operated or managed by any person, the required lenders shall direct the administrative agent to appoint an appropriately qualified person to possess, own, operate or manage, as the case may be, such real property. (h) in acting under and by virtue of this agreement and the other security documents, the administrative agent shall have all of the rights, protections and immunities granted to the administrative agent and the trustee under the credit agreement (including but not limited to the right to be indemnified under section7.07), and all such rights, protections and immunities are incorporated by reference herein, mutatis mutandis. (i) notwithstanding anything in this agreement to the contrary and for the avoidance of doubt, the administrative agent shall have no duty to act outside of the united states in respect of any collateral located in another jurisdiction other than the united states. section 11.2. administrative agent may perform; administrative agent appointed attorney-in-fact. if any pledgor shall fail to perform any covenants contained in this agreement (including such pledgors covenants to (i)pay the premiums in respect of all required insurance policies hereunder, (ii)pay and discharge any taxes, assessments and special assessments, levies, fees and governmental charges imposed upon or assessed against, and  -33- landlords, carriers, mechanics, workmens, repairmens, laborers, materialmens, suppliers and warehousemens liens and other claims arising by operation of law against, all or any portion of the pledged collateral or mortgaged property, (iii)make repairs, (iv)discharge liens or (v)pay or perform any obligations of such pledgor under any pledged collateral or mortgaged property or if any representation or warranty on the part of any pledgor contained herein shall be breached, the administrative agent may (but shall not be obligated to) do the same or cause it to be done or remedy any such breach, and may expend funds for such purpose; provided, however, that the administrative agent shall in no event be bound to inquire into the validity of any tax, lien, imposition or other obligation which such pledgor fails to pay or perform as and when required hereby and which such pledgor does not contest in accordance with the provisions of the credit agreement. any and all amounts so expended by the administrative agent shall be paid by the pledgors in accordance with the provisions of section7.7 of the credit agreement. neither the provisions of this section11.2 nor any action taken by the administrative agent pursuant to the provisions of this section11.2 shall prevent any such failure to observe any covenant contained in this agreement nor any breach of representation or warranty from constituting an event of default. each pledgor hereby appoints the administrative agent its attorney-in-fact, with full power and authority in the place and stead of such pledgor and in the name of such pledgor, or otherwise, from time to time in the administrative agents discretion to take any action and to execute any instrument consistent with the terms of the credit agreement, this agreement and the other security documents which the administrative agent may deem necessary or advisable to accomplish the purposes hereof (but the administrative agent shall not be obligated to and shall have no liability to such pledgor or any third party for failure to so do or take action). the foregoing grant of authority is a power of attorney coupled with an interest and such appointment shall be irrevocable for the term hereof. each pledgor hereby ratifies all that such attorney shall lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. section 11.3. continuing security interest; assignment. this agreement shall create a continuing security interest in the pledged collateral and shall (i)be binding upon the pledgors, their respective successors and assigns and (ii)inure, together with the rights and remedies of the administrative agent hereunder, to the benefit of the administrative agent and the other secured parties and each of their respective successors, transferees and assigns. no other persons (including any other creditor of any pledgor) shall have any interest herein or any right or benefit with respect hereto. without limiting the generality of the foregoing clause(ii), any secured party may assign or otherwise transfer any indebtedness held by it secured by this agreement to any other person, and such other person shall thereupon become vested with all the benefits in respect thereof granted to such secured party, herein or otherwise, subject however, to the provisions of the credit agreement. each of the pledgors agrees that its obligations hereunder and the security interest created hereunder shall continue to be effective or be reinstated, as applicable, if at any time payment, or any part thereof, of all or any part of the secured obligations is rescinded or must otherwise be restored by the secured party upon the bankruptcy or reorganization of any pledgor or otherwise. section 11.4. termination; release. when all the secured obligations have been paid in full (other than contingent liabilities not then due and payable), this agreement shall  -34- terminate. upon termination of this agreement the pledged collateral shall be released from the lien of this agreement. upon such release or any release of pledged collateral or any part thereof in accordance with the provisions of the credit agreement, the administrative agent shall, upon the request and at the sole cost and expense of the pledgors, assign, transfer and deliver to pledgor, against receipt and without recourse to or warranty by the administrative agent, such of the pledged collateral or any part thereof to be released (in the case of a release) as may be in possession of the administrative agent and as shall not have been sold or otherwise applied pursuant to the terms hereof, and, with respect to any other pledged collateral, proper documents and instruments acknowledging the termination hereof or the release of such pledged collateral, as the case may be. section 11.5. modification in writing. no amendment, modification, supplement, termination or waiver of or to any provision hereof, nor consent to any departure by any pledgor therefrom, shall be effective unless the same shall be made in accordance with the terms of the credit agreement and unless in writing and signed each of the parties hereto and in compliance with the terms of the intercreditor agreement (including, without limitation, section8.3 thereof). the administrative agent shall be entitled to receive an opinion and officers certificate stating that such amendment, modification, supplement or waiver is authorized or permitted by the credit agreement, this security agreement and any other credit document and that all conditions precedent to the execution of such have been satisfied. any amendment, modification or supplement of or to any provision hereof, any waiver of any provision hereof and any consent to any departure by any pledgor from the terms of any provision hereof in each case shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which made or given. except where notice is specifically required by this agreement or any other document evidencing the secured obligations, no notice to or demand on any pledgor in any case shall entitle any pledgor to any other or further notice or demand in similar or other circumstances. section 11.6. notices. unless otherwise provided herein or in the credit agreement, any notice or other communication herein required or permitted to be given shall be given in the manner and become effective as set forth in the credit agreement, as to any pledgor, addressed to it at the address of the borrower set forth in the credit agreement, as to the administrative agent, addressed to it at the address set forth in the credit agreement, or in each case at such other address as shall be designated by such party in a written notice to the other party complying as to delivery with the terms of this section11.6. section 11.7. governing law, consent to jurisdiction and service of process; waiver of jury trial. sections 9.12, 9.13 and 9.16 of the credit agreement are incorporated herein, mutatis mutandis, as if a part hereof. section 11.8. severability of provisions. any provision hereof which is invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability without invalidating the remaining provisions hereof or affecting the validity, legality or enforceability of such provision in any other jurisdiction.  -35- section 11.9. execution in counterparts. this agreement and any amendments, waivers, consents or supplements hereto may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed and delivered shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts together shall constitute one and the same agreement. delivery of any executed counterpart of a signature page of this agreement by facsimile or other electronic transmission shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this agreement. section 11.10. business days. in the event any time period or any date provided in this agreement ends or falls on a day other than a business day, then such time period shall be deemed to end and such date shall be deemed to fall on the next succeeding business day, and performance herein may be made on such business day, with the same force and effect as if made on such other day. section 11.11. no credit for payment of taxes or imposition. such pledgor shall not be entitled to any credit against the principal, premium, if any, or interest payable under the credit agreement, and such pledgor shall not be entitled to any credit against any other sums which may become payable under the terms thereof or hereof, by reason of the payment of any taxes on the pledged collateral or mortgaged property or any part thereof. section 11.12. no claims against administrative agent. nothing contained in this agreement shall constitute any consent or request by the administrative agent, express or implied, for the performance of any labor or services or the furnishing of any materials or other property in respect of the pledged collateral or mortgaged property or any part thereof, nor as giving any pledgor any right, power or authority to contract for or permit the performance of any labor or services or the furnishing of any materials or other property in such fashion as would permit the making of any claim against the administrative agent in respect thereof or any claim that any lien based on the performance of such labor or services or the furnishing of any such materials or other property is prior to the lien hereof. section 11.13. no release. nothing set forth in this agreement or any other security document, nor the exercise by the administrative agent of any of the rights or remedies hereunder, shall relieve any pledgor from the performance of any term, covenant, condition or agreement on such pledgors part to be performed or observed under or in respect of any of the pledged collateral or mortgaged property or from any liability to any person under or in respect of any of the pledged collateral or mortgaged property or shall impose any obligation on the administrative agent or any other secured party to perform or observe any such term, covenant, condition or agreement on such pledgors part to be so performed or observed or shall impose any liability on the administrative agent or any other secured party for any act or omission on the part of such pledgor relating thereto or for any breach of any representation or warranty on the part of such pledgor contained in this agreement, the credit agreement, the other security documents and any other credit documents or under or in respect of the pledged collateral or mortgaged property or made in connection herewith or therewith. anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, neither the administrative agent nor any other secured party shall have any obligation or liability under any contracts, agreements and other documents included in the  -36- pledged collateral by reason of this agreement, nor shall the administrative agent or any other secured party be obligated to perform any of the obligations or duties of any pledgor thereunder or to take any action to collect or enforce any such contract, agreement or other document included in the pledged collateral hereunder. the obligations of each pledgor contained in this section11.13 shall survive the termination hereof and the discharge of such pledgors other obligations under this agreement, the credit agreement and the other security documents. section 11.14. obligations absolute. all obligations of each pledgor hereunder shall be absolute and unconditional irrespective of: (i) any bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, arrangement, readjustment, composition, liquidation or the like of any other pledgor; (ii) any lack of validity or enforceability of the credit agreement, any security document or any other credit document, or any other agreement or instrument relating thereto; (iii) any change in the time, manner or place of payment of, or in any other term of, all or any of the secured obligations, or any other amendment or waiver of or any consent to any departure from the credit agreement, any security document, any other credit document, or any other agreement or instrument relating thereto; (iv) any pledge, exchange, release or non-perfection of any other collateral, or any release or amendment or waiver of or consent to any departure from any guarantee, for all or any of the secured obligations; (v) any exercise, non-exercise or waiver of any right, remedy, power or privilege under or in respect hereof, the credit agreement, any security document, any other credit document, or any other agreement or instrument relating thereto except as specifically set forth in a waiver granted pursuant to the provisions of section11.5 hereof; or (vi) any other circumstances which might otherwise constitute a defense available to, or a discharge of, any pledgor. [remainder of this page intentionally left blank.]  -37- in witness whereof, each pledgor and the administrative agent have caused this agreement to be duly executed and delivered by their duly authorized officers as of the date first above written.  fiesta restaurant group, inc., as pledgor by:  /s/ joseph a. zirkman  name: joseph a. zirkman title: vice president cabana beverages, inc. as guarantor and pledgor by:  /s/ shanna m. ramirez  name: shanna m. ramirez title: president cabana bevco llc. as guarantor and pledgor by:  /s/ shanna m. ramirez  name: shanna m. ramirez title: manager get real, inc. as guarantor and pledgor by:  /s/ julio murillo  name: julio murillo title: vice president  s-1 pollo franchise, inc. as guarantor and pledgor by:  /s/ joseph a. zirkman  name: joseph a. zirkman title: vice president pollo operations, inc. as guarantor and pledgor by:  /s/ joseph a. zirkman  name: joseph a. zirkman title: vice president taco cabana, inc. as guarantor and pledgor by:  /s/ joseph a. zirkman  name: joseph a. zirkman title: vice president tp acquisition corp. as guarantor and pledgor by:  /s/ joseph a. zirkman  name: joseph a. zirkman title: vice president  s-2 tc bevco llc. as guarantor and pledgor by:  /s/ shanna m. ramirez  name: shanna m. ramirez title: manager t.c. management, inc. as guarantor and pledgor by:  /s/ joseph a. zirkman  name: joseph a. zirkman title: vice president tc lease holdings iii, v and vi, inc. as guarantor and pledgor by:  /s/ joseph a. zirkman  name: joseph a. zirkman title: vice president texas taco cabana, l.p. as guarantor and pledgor by: t.c. management, inc., its general partner by:  /s/ joseph a. zirkman  name: joseph a. zirkman title: vice president  s-3 tpaq holding corporation as guarantor and pledgor by:  /s/ julio murillo  name: julio murillo title: vice president  s-4 wells fargo bank, national association, as administrative agent by:  /s/ tim g. loyd  name: tim g. loyd title: managing director  s-5